Ugh. I'm getting sleepy.
It's so cold at night.
And how am I supposed to spot
suspicious people in this crowd?
Maybe I oughta give up.
I mean, they might k-kill me
if they catch me.
Good work.
What was the point of hiding
if you give us away now?
I'll wait outside.
You'll never get anything
out of him with me there.
Yes, I agree.
Oh, hey. You've got a proper sword now.
I doubt he's gotten his own hands
bloody with these murders,
but if you can, bring back proof.
Yes, sir.
What?
A-Are you sure about this?
I staked out the place all night and
didn't see anyone shady go in or out.
Is he really mixed up in this mess?
Yes, he is. Now, let's get going.
Y-Yeah?
Blue Miburo
Welcome, Nio-kun, Taro-kun.
I'm glad you came. I've been waiting.
I have some nibbles ready. Please, come in.
Hey, this guy seems awfully sure of himself.
You sure about this? Tread carefully.
I'll cut to the chase.
You had us attacked last night, didn't you?
Zero subtlety!
What? Someone attacked you?
Are you hurt?
Oh, don't bother putting on an act.
Hijikata-san gave me this earlier.
Our attacker, Jutaro-san,
was carrying this paper.
Two children
going south along
the canal
Miburo
It says, "Two children going south
along the canal. Miburo."
So it does. But what makes
you think I wrote that?
Do we have to?
Don't be silly.
They just started bargaining
way over my head!
Tell me. Were you attacked
right after you left me here?
That's right.
Do you honestly think I ran ahead
of you to deliver that message?
I'm not proud of it,
but I'm an awfully slow runner.
Right.
But if you refold this paper
along the creases...
Look how thin it ends up.
Almost like it was tied to something.
What do you mean?
You used a pigeon, didn't you?
Oh, of course! Carrier pigeons!
You could deliver the message
without going anywhere.
And it's faster than a person.
Wow. How'd you figure it out?
He admitted it!
I saw pigeons on the roof
across the street when I was last here.
It got me wondering.
Oh, so you noticed that.
Nothing gets past him!
Wait, b-but is he allowed
to just send out carrier pigeons?
I doubt it. The Shogunate has a ban on them.
They'd haul me off to jail
if they caught me.
You lose, Golden Pavilion Head.
So, where's your proof?
What do you get from it, Seto-kun?
I've been thinking about it,
but I just can't figure it out.
Those people sincerely
despise the Shogunate,
along with its Aizu supporters
and their Miburo agents.
What's so wrong about passing
information to people who want it?
They sounded grateful.
I... I get it! You must be
making a fortune off all the info!
No, I don't take a single mon.
Wh-Why do you do it, then?
Is it wrong to hurt people?
Does loving people earn you praise?
Do you know the answer, Nio-kun?
No, I don't.
I'm sure you don't.
This world is full of nonsense.
Such as?
Such as, let's see...
Think about a person's whole life.
Your family and the order
you're born in determines your future.
Everyone knows that,
but doesn't it seem strange?
If you're born to a farm family,
you become a farmer.
Samurai children become samurai;
merchants, merchants.
Eldest sons must succeed their fathers.
Younger sons spend
their whole lives as dependents.
Only doctors, swordsmen,
and scholars can ever break free.
But unfortunately, I have
no interest in being any of those.
Gimme a break! What have you got to complain
about when your family runs this huge shop?
I see you lack imagination.
Big or small, everyone has
something to complain about.
What do I want to do?
Nothing, really.
It's all good fun. Just a little prank.
But it stops being "just a prank"
when people get hurt.
I won't let you keep this up
and get away with it.
I give up. How stubborn can you get?
Y-Yeah! I'll be watching those pigeons
to make sure you don't try anything!
Fine, fine.
I'll drop the whole business.
R-Really?
Really. I'll prove it.
This is what you want, right?
It's a list of the inns
those guys like to stay at.
All right! Way to go, Nio!
Keep it.
Why?!
It doesn't sit right.
Don't be a child!
Are you sure? They won't give up just
because I've stopped working with them.
We'll find them without that paper.
Every Miburo is looking
high and low as we speak.
Not exactly efficient.
That's fine!
Now that we've settled that,
Taro-kun, let's go join them.
Why?! Are you stupid?!
Nio! Taro!
We just got a tip about
the inn they're at. Wrap it up.
They found them already?
See? Aren't the Miburo something?
Get a move on!
Yes, sir. We'll be right there.
Nio-kun.
Have you changed a little since yesterday?
You're actually furious, aren't you?
Deep down, you just can't stand outsiders
riding roughshod over your hometown.
So you leaked information,
hoping we'd kill each other.
What you said earlier is just
a front you put up for people.
As if. I don't know
what you're talking about.
Nio! What's taking you? Let's go!
Oh, right.
Bye, Seto-kun. See you later.
Hurry up.
You're so impatient, Taro-kun.
Nio...
You're a funny one.
I hear they've been in and out of this inn.
It's broad daylight now. They may be out.
There are four left.
Yeah.
There were five, but Soji already slit one open.
We go in.
Hey!
Oh, it's Nio and the others.
We made it in time.
Yes. We're all here now.
I'm gonna die.
Kondo-san.
I know.
We aren't here to kill.
Take them alive if you can.
We'll hear them out and
make them pay for their crimes.
Yes, sir.
Hara-san and I will guard the back door.
Good.
Let's move.
Yeah!
Follow me.
That's the wrong way!
Turn around!
Mizutaya Inn
We have heard that outlaws
have gone to ground in this inn.
Please evacuate at once!
They may be dangerous!
We'll search the first floor.
I'll take the second.
Oh, please have mercy!
I can't have you waving
swords around in my rooms.
What if you hurt the other guests?
Please, samurai.
Kondo-san.
Very well, ma'am.
We won't swing our swords. You have my word.
I think the guests in the back room
go in and out at night.
So this is it!
Oh?
Are you looking for someone?
Mizutaya Inn
I see. You've come all the way from Edo.
I'm an Aizu man myself.
Aizu, you say? What a coincidence.
Why are we sipping tea
with some old geezer?!
By the way, samurai, have you had
much practice with the sword?
Yes. It's all I'm good at, so I swing
my blade from dawn till dusk.
I guess swordsmanship
really does take practice.
Of course it does.
He's going along with it!
Mizutaya Inn
What?
You ran a dojo in Edo?
Did these lads train with you there?
No, these boys joined us in Kyoto.
You must be quite a famous—
Oh, no. It was only a small dojo.
My wife struggled to make ends meet
when we had a lot of mouths to feed.
He's married?!
And our child is still a baby.
He even has a kid!
Dear, me. You certainly must have struggled.
No, it never bothered me.
It was the sandals.
Seeing more and more sandals in our
entry hall made me happy. I can't say why.
I couldn't help grinning
every time I looked at them.
Well, in the end, my wife
gave up on trying to convince me.
I sweated my days away
to prove who was the strongest,
and talked my nights away
on swordsmanship.
Those were the days.
Then, don't you find
your service in Kyoto a burden?
No, I like it, too.
Every day's a new experience.
I can still devote myself to the sword,
and getting to punish rascals
makes life clear-cut.
I want to make the townspeople happier,
and to serve the Shogun and the Emperor.
Right, Nio?
Yes, sir.
I think I understand
why your men follow you.
Why assassination?
A-Assassination? This old guy?
No way. He looks so weak.
N-Nio, did you know about this?
Vengeance for my son.
It started with talk of an officer's post,
but that was a bald-faced lie.
They took our money for nothing,
and my wife succumbed to disease.
My son slit his own belly.
Still, I've done terrible things.
Come quietly.
Don't.
You'll only get hurt.
I knew at first sight
that I couldn't best you.
Yes.
But I haven't avenged my late son yet.
I see.
Kondo-san, he's running away!
Huh?
Wait!
Out of my way!
I wondered why it was so quiet
and what was taking so long.
Everyone!
Mizutaya Inn
I've got you now!
Let go of me, damn you!
You were lying?
What?
Then, what about your son?
Another lie, of course! My idiot son's
alive and well in the countryside!
Is that so?
I'm glad to hear it.
Kondo-san, you're forthright to a fault.
You trust too easily.
Let's get going.
Come on. Walk.
Pardon the disturbance.
Oh, no.
Um...
Thank you for keeping your word
about not drawing your sword.
I knew Kondo-san was a great man.
That's what drew everyone to him.
Sake
Guess it's about time I went hunting.
The sun's gone down.
We won't allow any more victims.
Three rogues who have attacked Aizu samurai
remain. We'll deal with them tonight.
But they're a crafty bunch.
We don't know what they might do.
True. Send word to
Serizawa-san and his men.
Taro.
Tell him to keep his guard up and
to take them alive if he can.
Y-Yes, sir!
We're counting on you, Taro-kun.
You have an important job to do.
Shove it!
Why couldn't he have been at his usual bar?
How am I supposed to find him now?
Man, why does this only happen to me?
Ah, I stepped in shit!
Hang in there, Taro-kun.
Damn it. Nothing good's
happened since he showed up.
Outta my way!
I-I know that voice!
S-Serizawa-sensei!
Hm?
His eyes are totally unfocused?!
Where's that killer?
Shush! What'll you do if they really show up?
Serizawa Kamo's right here!
You must be him.
A big man over six shaku tall
in a white coat.
I hear you've been calling yourself
the leader of the Miburo.
They found us!
Allow me to deliver your just deserts.
I suppose I'll play the villain, then.
Whoa, there.
I-It's hopeless.
He can't even stand up straight.
W-We're gonna be killed.
The shops will close soon.
Tell anyone out walking to get inside.
Yes, sir.
Warn every woman and child.
Walk elders to their homes.
Hey! It's not safe out here after dark!
Go on, hurry home.
You've got some nerve,
flirting where all the world can see.
As if you aren't just jealous.
Come now, hurry home before night falls.
Go on. You're in danger out here, too.
I'm begging you!
Please don't walk outside at night!
Kondo-san, I see more people over there.
Let's go.
Right.
Hey.
You're out looking for a chance
to kill us, aren't you?
Then you've come to your death
and spared me the trouble.
I'd figured you ran back home to the sticks.
When a shinobi takes a job,
he always sees it through.
The dead guy. Jutaro or whatever
his name was. He had this purse on him.
The design matches yours.
Not that I noticed myself.
You know Nio, that white-haired kid?
He wondered if this linked you and Jutaro,
and said he'd like to return it.
He gave me a message for you:
"I hope you'll agree to a deal now."
I bet you have trouble
keeping your footing up here.
Unlike us Satsuma shinobi.
I get why you're angry. Most people
would assume we're taunting you.
But I think he really
means it as a kindness.
Even though you're in league
with a guy who tried to kill him.
"Angry"? Hah! Shinobi don't act on emotion.
How like a shinobi.
I bet you take pride in that.
I get it. I was the same way.
The guy who raised me
was basically the ideal samurai,
and he told me a samurai should be strong.
Strength is the mark of a samurai.
Living like a samurai
means pursuing strength.
He wouldn't shut up about rules, either.
"Don't let anyone you can't
trust stand on your left."
"You can't draw and
strike them in one motion."
What's your point?
I'm saying, Nio's a troublemaker.
He's hopeless with a sword.
Just no good at all.
He talks back. He's got
a big head about sumo.
He bosses people around,
then ignores orders himself.
"Help with the laundry." "Watch the fire."
"Don't come in with dirty feet." "Mind this kid."
Basically, he's a pain in the ass.
Life has sucked ever since
he joined the Miburo.
But he's not tied down like you and I are.
He's got no rules about
how things ought to be.
He's got no pride.
Or maybe he does and
I just can't make sense of it.
All I know is that he tries to be there
for the weak and the hurt.
In other words, he's a hopeless softy. So—
That's enough!
No more talk.
Running your mouth won't help you beat me.
You should've learned that yesterday.
Yeah.
Yesterday, you'd have been right.
Huh?
"A samurai ought to wear
his sword on the left."
You're left-handed, huh, Hajime-kun?
Pride and rules can go to hell.
You can't beat me anymore.
His left hand?
Come quietly, or I'll chop your arms
and legs off before tossing you in a cell.
Choose now.
Not good.
This kid's bad news.
Pride
Next time
I am Kondo Isami.
Three assassins remain. Or was it two?
Actually, something tells me
there were four of them.
But enough details.
I won't allow any more victims.
We Miburo will catch them all before long.
Nio, I believe in your efforts.
Next time: "Palm of the Hand."
It's not to be missed.
Palm of the Hand